## Js Engine
* ### JavaScript engine is a computer program that executes JavaScript code.
* ### Every browser has its own JavaScript engine
* ### The most well known engine is Google's V-Eight.

* ### JavaScript engine always contains a call stack and a heap
---
## Difference between compilation and interpretation
* ### **Compilation**: Entire code is converted into machine code at once, and written to a binary file that can be executed by a computer.

* ### **Interpretation**: Interpreter runs through the source code and executes it line by line.

* ### **Just-in-time (JIT) compilation**: Entire code is converted into machine code at once, then executed immediately
---

## Modern Just-In-Time Compilation of Javascript

* ### Modern JavaScript engine uses a mix between compilation and interpretation which is called just-in-time compilation.
* ### This approach basically compiles the entire code into machine code at once and then executes it right away.

## Execution
* ### JavaScript code enters the engine the first step is to parse the code which essentially means to read the code.

* ### During the parsing process, the code is parsed into a data structure called the abstract syntax tree or AST.

* ### This works by first splitting up each line of code into pieces that are meaningful to the language like the const or function keywords, and then saving all these pieces into the tree in a structured way.

* ### This step also checks if there are any syntax errors and the resulting tree will later be used to generate the machine code.

* ### This tree has absolutely nothing to do with the DOM. the next step is compilation which takes the generated AST and compiles it into machine code

* ### This machine code then gets executed right away because modern JavaScript engine use just-in-time compilation.
* ### And execution happens in the JavaScript engines call stack

* ### Now different engines implements in slightly different ways,
* ### but in a nutshell this is what modern just-in-time compilation looks like for JavaScript.
---
## Javascript Runtime
* ### JavaScript runtime runtime is always a JavaScript engine.

* ### That's why it makes sense to talk about engines and runtimes together.
* ### Without an engine there is no runtime and there is no JavaScript at all.
* ### However the engine alone is not enough. 
---
## Callback Queue & Callback functions
* ### Typical JavaScript runtime also includes a so called callback queue.
* ### This is a data structure that contains all the callback functions that are ready to be executed.

* ### the first thing that actually happens after the event is that the callback function is put into the callback queue. Then when the stack is empty the callback function is passed to the stack so that it can be executed. And this happens by event loop.
* ### Event loop takes callback functions from the callback queue and puts them in the call stack so that they can be executed.
---
