# How is JavaScript code executed?
```Javascript
const name = "Jonas";

const first = () => {
    let a = 1;
    const b = second();
    a = a + b;
    return a;
};

function second() {
    var c = 2;
    return c;
}
```
## Top-level code
* ### name variable declaration is top-level code & therefore it will be executed in the global execution context.
* ### We have two functions, one expression, and one declaration. So these will also be declared, so that they can be called later. But the code inside the functions, will only be executed when the functions are called.
* ### Global execution context is created for top-level code.

## What exactly is an execution context?
* ### An execution context is an abstract concept, an environment in which a piece of JavaScript is executed.
* ### It's like a box that stores all the necessary information for some code to be executed.
* ### So, JavaScript code always runs inside an execution context.
* ### In any JavaScript project, no matter how large it is,there is only ever one global execution context.
* ### It's always there as the default context, and it's where top-level code will execute.
* ### Once this first code, so the top-level of code is finished, functions finally start to execute as well.
* ### For each and every function call, and execution context will be created
* ### All these execution contexts together, make up the call stack that I mentioned before.
* ### when all functions are done executing, the engine will basically keep waiting for callback functions to arrive so that it can execute these.
---
## What's inside Execution Context

* ### In the variable environment, all our variables and function declarations are stored, and there is also a special arguments object. 
* ### Arrow functions don't have the arguments object and the this keyword.
* ### Instead, they can use the arguments object, and the this keyword from their closest regular function parent.
* ### Will get one global execution context and one for each function. So one for the first function, and one for the second function.
* ### In the global context, we have the name variable declaration, the first and second function declarations, as well as the X variable declaration.
* ### For the functions, the variable environment will literally contain all the code of a particular function.
* ### Now the value of X is marked as unknown here, because this value is the result of the first function that we didn't run yet.

* ### in the first function, we have the a variable set to 1 and the b variable which once again requires a function call in order to become known.
* ### Finally, the variable environment of the second function, contains the C variable set to 2, and since this is a irregular function,
* ### Well, it's simple because this is an extremely small amount of code.
* ### But now imagine there are hundreds of execution contexts for hundreds of functions. How will the engine keep track of the order in which functions we're called?
* ### Well, that's where the call stack finally comes in.
* ### In the call stack execution contexts get stacked on top of each other, in order to keep track of where we are in the programs execution.
* ### the execution context that is on top of the stack, is the one that is currently running. when it's finished running, it will be removed from the stack, and execution will go back to the previous execution context.
* ### JavaScript has only one thread of execution. so it can only do one thing at a time.


