

* ### Scoping controls how our program's variables are organized and accessed by the JavaScript engine.
---

## **Lexical Scoping**

* ### In JavaScript,lexical scoping means that the way variables are organized and accessed is entirely controlled by the placement of functions and of blocks in the programs code.
* ### For example, a function that is written inside another function has access to the variables of the parent function.
* ### Thus variable scoping is influenced by where exactly we write our functions and code blocks.
---
## Scope
### Scope is the space or environment in which a certain variable is declared.
### In the case of functions, that's essentially the variable environment which is stored in the functions execution context.
* ### Scope of a variable is basically the entire region of our code, where a certain variable can be accessed.
* ### Scope is not the same as scope of a variable.
---
## Difference between scope and variable environment?
* ### for the case of functions, it's basically the same.
* ### In JavaScript, we have the global scope, function scope, and block scope.
---
## Three different types of scope in JavaScript.
* ### Global scope, 
* ### Function scope and 
* ### Block scope.

### Scope is the place in our code where variables are declared.
### When we say variables, the exact same thing is true for functions as well. Because in the end, functions are just values that are stored in variables.
---
## Global Scope
```javascript
const me = "Jonas";
const job = "teacher";
const year = 1989
```
* ### Variables that are declared outside of any function or block.
* ### These variables will be accessible everywhere in our program, in all functions and all blocks.
---

## Function Scope
```Javascript
function calcAge(birthYear) {
    const now = 2037;
    const age = now - birthYear;
    return age;
}

console.log(now); // Reference error
```
* ### The now variable is 2037 inside the cog H function & therefore, we can use it in the function to do calculations.

* ### But outside of the function, as we try to log it to the console, we get a reference error.

* ### JavaScript is trying to find the now variable in this global scope,So outside of the function, but it cannot find it and so there is gonna be an error.

* ### So function declarations, function expressions and arrow functions all create their own scope.
---
## Block Scope
```Javascript
if (year>=1981 && year <=1996) {
    const millenial = true;
    const food = "Avocado";
}

console.log(millenial)  // Reference error
```

* ### Starting in ES6, blocks also creates scopes now. With blocks, we mean everything that is between curly braces, such as the block of an if statement or a for loop.
* ### Now, the big difference is that block scopes only apply to variables declared with let or const.
* ### So again, only let and const variables are restricted to the block in which they were created.
* ### That's why we say that let and const variables are block scoped.
* ### So if we declared a variable using var in this block,then that variable would actually still be accessible outside of the block, and would be scoped to the current function or to the global scope.
* ### So we say that var is function scoped.
* ### let and const variables as well as functions are block scoped.
---
## Scope chain
```Javascript
const myName = 'Jonas';

function first() {
    const age = 30;

    if(age>=30) {
        const decade = 3;
        var millenial = true;
    }

    function second() {
        const job = 'teacher';

        console.log(`${myName} is a ${age}-old ${job}`);
        // Jonas is a 30 year old teacher
    }

    second();
}

first();
```

* ### Start with the global scope. myName variable is the only variable declaration in the global scope.
* ### Inside the global scope, we have a scope for the first function because each function creates its own scope.
* ### It's age variable that's declared right at the top of the function.
* ### Next inside the first scope, let's now consider the second function, which will also create its own scope containing the job variable set to teacher.
* ### We have a nested structure of scopes with one scope inside the other.

### Interesting part in the second function,
```Javascript
const job = 'teacher';
console.log(`${myName} is a ${age}-old ${job}`);
```
* ### We have this line of code where we need the myName variable and the age variable, which were both not declared inside the current scope.
* ### But we really need these variables here, because otherwise we can't create this string here!

## How will the JavaScript engine know the values of these variables?
* ### Well, the secret is that every scope always has access to all the variables from all its outer scopes.So from all its parent scopes.
* ### In our example, this means that the second scope can access the age variable from the scope of the first function.
* ### This also means that the first scope can access variables that are in the global scope, because that is the parent scope.
* ### As a consequence of this,the second scope will then also be able to access the myName variable from the global scope, because it has access to the variables from the first scope.

### In other words,

* ### If one scope needs to use a certain variable, but cannot find it in the current scope, it will look up in the scope chain and see if it can find a variable in one of the parent scopes.
* ### If it can, it will then use that variable. And if it can't, then there will be an error and this process is called variable lookup.
* ### it's important to note that these variables are not copied from one scope to another.
* ### Instead, scopes simply look up in the scope chain until they find a variable that they need and then they use it.
* ### A certain scope will never, ever have access to the variables of an inner scope.
* ### In this example, the first scope, for example, will never get access to the job variable that is stored in the second scope.
* ### One scope can only look up in a scope chain,but it cannot look down basically. So only parent scope can be used, but no child scopes.
* ### Thus this line of code can be executed and print to the console. Jonas is a 30 year old teacher,
* ### for let and const variables that's why the only variable that's in the scope is the decade variable.
* ### The millennial variable isn't declared with const or let, and therefore it is not scoped to just this block.
* ### Instead, the millennial variable is actually part of the first function scope.
* ### Now it's important to understand that our purple blocks scope does not get access to any variables from the yellow second function scope. because of lexical scoping (**Refer from Slides**)
* ### we can access variables depends on where the scope is placed, so where it is written in the code.

* ### They're both child scopes of the first function. We could even say that they are a sibling scopes.

* ### So by the rules of lexical scoping, they cannot have access to each others variables,
* ### We can also say that the scope chain only works upwards, not sideways. 
---
## Difference between the scope chain and to call stack ?

```Javascript
const a = 'Jonas';
first();

function first() {
    const b = 'Hello!';
    second();

    function second() {
        const c = 'Hi';
        third();
    }
}

function third() {
    const d = 'Hey!';
    console.log(d+c+b+a);
    //Reference error
}
```
* ### three functions called first, second and third,
* ### Start by calling the first function, which then calls the second function, which in turn calls the third function.
* ### Call stack for this example - Refer from Slides.
* ### One execution context for each function in the exact order in which they were called.
* ### They also included the variable environment of each execution context. Start building the scope chain, start with the global scope.
* ### the variables available in the global scope are exactly the ones stored in the variable environment of the global execution context.
* ### Now in the global scope, we also call the first function, which is the reason why we have an execution context for it in the call stack, this function of course, also gets its own scope, which contains all the variables that are declared inside of the function.
* ### the first scope also gets access to all the variables from its parent scope, thanks to the scope chain.
* ### The scope chain has nothing to do with the order in which functions were called.
* ### The order of function calls is not relevant to the scope chain at all.

## Moving on to the second function now,

* ### Once again, its scope is equal to its variable environment.Also it's lexically written within the first function. so will have access to all its parent scopes as well.
* ### Now in the second function, we try to call the third function. 
## But why does that work?
* ### Well, it works because the third function is in the scope chain of the second function scope as we can see here in our scope chain diagram.
* ### It's a function in the global scope or a global function, and therefore it's accessible everywhere.

## What happens in this third function?

* ### we're trying to act as variables B, C, D and A here.
* ### D is no problem because it's right there in the third function scope.
* ### So that one is easy. Then variable C is not in a local scope and so JavaScript needs to do a variable lookup. So it looks up in a scope chain looking for variable C, but it's not there. and of course it isn't,
* ### because C is defined in the second function, and there is just no way in which the third function can access variables defined in the second function.
* ### we get the reference error because both C and B cannot be found in the third scope nor in the scope chain.

## Thus Execution context, variable environments, the call stack scope and the scope chain are all different, but still very related concepts.
---
# Summary

* ## Scoping asks the question, "Where do variables live?" Or "Where can we access a certain variable, "and where not?"
* ## There are three types scope in JavaScript. The global scope, scopes defined by functions and scopes defined by blocks,  

* ## Only let and const variables are block scoped. Variables declared with var automatically end up in the closest function scope.

* ## In JavaScript, we have lexical scoping, which means that the rules of where we can access variables are based on where in the code functions and blocks are written.
* ## Every scope always has access to all the variables from all it's outer scopes. And this is called the scope chain.
* ## When a variable is not in the current scope, the engine looks up in the scope chain until it finds the variable that it's looking for, and this process is called variable lookup.
* ## Scope chain is a one way street. So a scope will never ever have access to the variables of an inner scope, only of outer scopes.
* ## Scope chain in a certain scope is equal to adding together all the variable environments of all the parent scopes.
* ## Scope chain has nothing to do with the order in which functions were called. So the order of function calls does not affect the scope chain at all.
---


